the first shipment of US military aid
has arrived in Israel this comes after
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
promised to escalate the bombardment of
Gaza President Joe Biden has expressed
his full support for
Israel let's go live now to Kimberly
Halid our White House correspondent in
Washington DC and Kimberly as the hours
pass in in Gaza it's clear that a very
dire humanitarian situation is
transpiring our correspondent they're
talking about entire neighborhoods being
wiped out as the US is sending weapons
I'm wondering is there any discussion
going on about ensuring that these
weapons are not being used to Target
civilians and the operations of wiping
out neighborhoods that reporters are
talking
about well what I can tell you is that
the Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
is headed to meet with the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and he will
be traveling on Wednesday what we know
is that part of those conversations will
include the discussion of safe passage
for the residents of Gaza folded into
that conversation will also be officials
from Egypt because of course the
question becomes although the residents
of Gaza are purportedly being warned
about the bombings that may be taking
place of apartment blocks and so on the
question becomes where are they supposed
to go there is no place for safe refuge
and so as a result uh many humanitarian
groups and international groups have
flagged the fact that there is nowhere
to go and so this discussion of safe
passage is being discussed the National
Security advisor Jake Sullivan spoke to
White House reporters on Tuesday did not
elaborate a lot about what discussions
are underway way but certainly has uh
said that those are discussions that the
secretary of state has uh embarked
upon and so just to put it in context
then is the thinking that uh the idea is
that an evacuation will be arranged of
Palestinians in Gaza to move them
towards
Egypt he did not elaborate at all on any
of the details he simply said that there
was a discussion
underway all right we'll leave it there
thanks so much kimbery
halin the UK foreign secretary James
cleverly has arrived in Israel to show
unwavering support for more on this
let's speak to Al jazer NE barco's live
for us in London so Neeve what's the
message from the
UK well the message is very clearly more
unequivocal support for Israel from the
outset that has been the standpoint of
uh the British government and now of
course we're seeing it played out on the
ground with this visit by Britain's
foreign secretary James cleverly he will
be meeting with Israeli politicians and
lawmakers as well as we believe some of
the victims of the weekend's attack it
follows warm words coming from Rishi
sunak towards Benjamin Netanyahu earlier
on in the week in which the British
prime minister said that if I asked
Britain would be prepared to provide
intelligence and diplomatic support to
the Israeli government in the wake of uh
these attacks uh the problem is here in
the UK that there is a tremendous amount
of concern about the black and white
nature in which this entire conflict is
being seen without any wider context
being referred to by the British
government or indeed any opposition
parties I mean Hamas back in 2021 was
design ated as a terrorist
organization uh and as such the British
Home Secretary soel braan has uh told
British policemen that um if any uh
Palestinian flags are flown any unsavory
chance chanted at Pro Palestinian
rallies then people could well
potentially be arrested those moves
could be seen as illegal and that's very
much likely to deepen the rift that is
already pretty big between opposing
versions opposing interpretations of
what we're seeing play out in uh Israel
and Gaza very very little reference if
any to the plight of Palestinians we
have had few comments probably the most
vocal and we had it on Al jaaz earlier
on the day from Hamza Yusef the first
minister of Scotland whose relatives are
in Gaza he is probably one of very very
few prominent politicians who are doing
everything possible to try and shine a
light on what's going on in Gaza and
call for humanitarian Corridor all right
thanks so much NE marker there from
London